---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Codes of Conduct
---


## Go:

The benefits of having such a document for an open source project is to clearly outline the expectations of the community members collaborating on the project. This can in turn ensure that conflicts are avoided and resolved in a streamlined way.
One difference between the first document and the second is that the covenant mentions the enforcement of community guidelines whereas the first document does not. This creates a structure for the project and consequences for those that do not follow its rules. Another difference is that exact examples of violations of the code of conduct are given in the covenant, increasing clarity.  

Code of conduct gives the community reasons to kick specific developers out for misconduct.

## Sugar:

The code of conduct reinforces the importance of reaching out for help and being careful with posting. It’s based on the code of conduct of the GoProject, but with the additional code about collaboration.

## CoralNet:
This project does not have a code of conduct but I would suggest that it would read something like:

We want CoralNet to be a friendly, inclusive, and respectful space for everyone. Whether you're contributing code, asking questions, or just hanging out, let's make it a great experience for all.

Expectations:

-Be kind and respectful in all interactions.  
-Use welcoming and inclusive language.  
-Give constructive feedback and be open to learning.  
-Respect different perspectives and experiences.  
-Help keep this a harassment-free environment.  

Avoid:

-Harassment, discrimination, or offensive remarks.  
-Trolling, personal attacks, or being disruptive.  
-Sharing private info without permission.  
-Unwanted advances or inappropriate behavior.  
-Anything that makes the space unsafe or uncomfortable.  

## Reflection: 

In the video “How to Drive Consensus and Transparency Within Open Source Communities” the speakers talk about the importance of having structured communities for the Open Source projects being made. They argue that having structure and communication between the leadership and members of the community is essential to the long term success of the project.

